Page 1 of 8
Applicability: All Employees
Reviewed By Corporate HR
Recommended By
Approved By
CHRO
CEO
Page 2 of 8
Purpose:
It is to articulate employee leave guidelines.
Scope:
This applies to all permanent, temporary, and part-time employees based in India.
Definition:
The Leave Year is the period for which the leave entitlement is calculated for employees.
Period: 1st April to 31st March.
Types of Leave:
• Privilege Leave (PL)
• General Leave (GL)
• Maternity Leave (ML) [Employee under Mediclaim/ ESIC, Miscarriage/ Medical
Termination of Pregnancy (MTP), Child Adoption]
• Paternity Leave (PTL)
• ESIC Leave
Page 3 of 8
I] Privilege Leave (PL):
Particulars Details
Applicable grades • E01 & above grades
• D01 & above grades
Leave Credit Period Leave will be credited on 1st day of every month for the previous
month's entitlement.
Eligibility Employees joining the company on or before the 15th of the month are
eligible for PL for the first month, whereas employees joining on or after
the 16th of the month are eligible for PL only from the following month.
Annual Entitlement 1. 15 days (1.25 days per month) for all applicable grades
2. 9 days (0.75 days per month) for BTR, NTR, ETR grade
Minimum applicability 2 leaves to be taken on consecutive working days
Maximum Accumulation
in the Financial Year
45 PL. Balance leave above 45 PL will lapse after the completion of the
financial year.
Encashment Maximum of 45 PL at the time of separation from the Company.
Calendar Holidays/
Weekly offs
Holidays and weekly offs can be prefixed, suffixed or combined with PL.
Holidays and weekly offs intervening during the period of leave, shall
not be treated as PL.
Leave for LTA For Claiming LTA, employee has to avail minimum 3 working days of PL.
Exclusion Employees serving notice Period i.e. post resignation shall not be
eligible to avail PL.
Privilege Leave (PL) encashment:
• Employees deputed overseas on work visa shall be eligible for accumulated PL encashment
on cessation of the employment during the FFS process.
• The Company will comply with the prevailing taxation rules pertaining to leave encashment.
Page 4 of 8
• PL encashment is calculated on the last drawn Basic Salary. The formula for encashment
shall be: (Leave balance / 30) x (Last drawn Basic Salary). The calculation for all states in
India is based on the basic salary except for employees in Karnataka.
Sr. No. State & UT Calculation of Leave encashment (Pay-out) amount
(INR)*
1 Karnataka Gross Salary
2 Maharashtra Basic Salary
3 Puducherry Basic Salary
4 All other states Basic Salary
*Maximum of 45 days of Leave encashment.
II] General Leave (GL):
Particulars Details
Applicable grades • E01 & above grades
• D01 & above grades
Leave Credit Period Half of the Leave entitlement will be credited on 1st April and the
balance half on 1st October of every year.
Eligibility • Employees joining in the first quarter of the half-year i.e.
1st April - 30th June, and 1st October – 31st December will
get full credit of 5 GL.
• Employees joining in the first half of the second quarter of
the half- year, i.e. 1st July - 15th August, and 1st January
– 15th February, will get credit of 2.5 GL.
• Employees joining in the second half of the second quarter
of the half-year, i.e., 16th August - 30th September, and
16th February – 31st March, will not receive any credit of
GL for that half-year.
Annual Entitlement 1. 10 days (5 days bi-annual) for all applicable grades
2. 6 days (3 days bi-annual) for BTR, NTR, ETR grades
Minimum applicability 0.5 day to be taken on a working day
Maximum Accumulation in the
Financial Year
20 GL. Balance leave above 20 GL will lapse after the completion
of the financial year.
Encashment No encashment for GL
Page 5 of 8
Calendar Holidays/ Weekly offs Holidays and weekly offs can be prefixed, suffixed or combined
with GL. Holidays and weekly offs intervening during the period
of leave, shall not be treated as GL.
Exclusion Employees serving the Notice Period, i.e., post-resignation, shall
not be eligible to avail GL.
III] Maternity Leave (ML):
A] Maternity Leave (ML): (Employees under Mediclaim)
Maternity Leave is granted to female employees for pre-natal and post-natal health care. The
conditions governing ML are as given below:
Particulars Details
Entitlement • Female employees are eligible for 26 calendar weeks (i.e., 182 days) of ML, of
which not more than 8 weeks could precede the date of an expected date of
delivery for a maximum of two such occasions.
• An employee can also get 30 additional days of maternity leave in case of
illness or complications arising out of pregnancy, delivery, or premature
birth of a child. (paid / unpaid clarity reqd.
Eligibility The employee should have worked for a period of not less than 80 days during
the twelve months immediately preceding the expected delivery date.
Application
Criteria
This Leave has to be availed in one spell i.e. 182 consecutive days of leave.
Documentations • The application for ML should be supported with a doctor's certificate
confirming the expected date of delivery.
• Female employees should submit Forms 1a and 1b to Location HR before
proceeding with ML and Form 2 after completion of ML at the time of
resuming duty. (refer Annexure)
Calendar
Holiday
Holidays can be prefixed and/or suffixed to ML. Holidays, if any, intervening in
the period of leave shall be treated as ML.
Salary Payment Employees under ML or extended ML will receive their monthly salary from the
company during the approved leave period.
Exclusion: ESIC • Employees who are covered under the ESI should go through the procedure
prescribed under the ESI for maternity benefits.
• Employees under ESIC aren't eligible for the salary from the employer during
ML.
After ML • A bonus of Rs. 3500/- will be paid once the employee resumes office post ML.
Page 6 of 8
B] Maternity Leave (ML): (Employees under ESIC)
Particulars Details
Entitlement • Female employees are eligible for 26 calendar weeks (i.e., 182 days) of ML,
of which not more than 8 weeks could precede the date of expected
delivery for a maximum of two such occasions.
• An employee can also get 30 additional days of maternity leave in
case illness or complications arise due to the delivery of a child.
Eligibility • Employees under ESIC.
• ESIC contribution of not less than 76 days preceding the expected delivery
date.
Application
Criteria
This Leave has to be availed in one spell. i.e., 182 consecutive days of leave.
Salary Payment ESIC will pay the applicable gross salary during the 182 days of Maternity
leave/extended ML approved by ESIC. The company will stop paying the salary
at the start of the Maternity Leave and will restart the salary upon resuming the
office after the completion of the Maternity Leave.
Documentations The employee is required to submit the claim form (ESIC Form-9) authorized
by the employer to the ESIC concerned branch office, to make a Claim in case
of Maternity Benefit as provided by the Employees' State Insurance
Corporation.
C] Miscarriage or Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP):
Particulars Details
Definition (Miscarriage) The term miscarriage is used to describe a pregnancy that ends before 24
weeks. Miscarriages can happen for various reasons, such as injuries,
pregnancy complications, etc. However, in most cases, it isn't possible to
diagnose a specific cause.
Definition (Medical
Termination of
Pregnancy)
A termination is a procedure that a woman chooses to have in order to
end her pregnancy.
Leave Period A period of eight weeks immediately following the day of their miscarriage
or, as the case may be, medical termination of pregnancy.
Salary Payment • ESIC will pay the applicable gross salary during the eight weeks of
Maternity leave. The company will stop paying the salary at the
start of the Maternity Leave and will restart the salary upon
resuming the office after the completion of the Maternity Leave.
• For non-ESIC-covered employees, the company will pay the
applicable salary during the eight weeks of Maternity leave.
Documentations Medical certificate from the doctor or the hospital stating miscarriage or
medical termination of pregnancy.
Page 7 of 8
D] Child Adoption Leave:
Particulars Details
Criteria This leave can be availed only once during the entire tenure of services with the
company.
Eligibility Permanent female employees in India.
Entitlement
Documentations The application should be supported with a necessary Adoption document.
Calendar
Holiday
This leave has to be availed in one spell.
IV] Paternity Leave (PTL):
Paternity Leave is granted to married male employees to provide post-natal health care to
their spouses and/or newborn babies. The conditions governing is as given below:
Particulars Details
Entitlement Employees are eligible for Paternity Leave for 1 calendar week for a maximum of
two such occasions. PTL is not mandatory.
Eligibility Male employees should have completed minimum of 6 months service with the
Company to be eligible for this leave.
Criteria Paternity Leave needs to be availed in one spell and within two calendar months
from the date of birth of child. Any intervening holidays / weekly offs shall be
considered as PTL.
Documentations The application for Paternity Leave should be supported with a doctor’s certificate
confirming the date on which the employee’s wife has delivered the child.
Child’s Age Entitlement for ML
Less than 3 months 84 days
Between 3 – 6 months 45 days
Between 6 months – 1 year 30 days
More than 1 year Not Applicable
Page 8 of 8
General Terms & Conditions:
• All leaves should be sanctioned by E+1.
• GL should not be taken for 2 consecutive days. In such cases, employees should apply for PL.
• Weekly offs and holidays intervening during the LWP (Leave without Pay) period shall
be counted as LWP.
• Regularization of leave on ‘Pulse’ is the responsibility of the employee.
• Employees are required to apply for OD for absence from work location while 'On Duty’;
otherwise, the same shall be interpreted as Leave without Pay (LWP). This shall be
applicable to employees deputed on domestic/ onsite assignments as well.
• During the onsite assignment, when an employee is governed by the onsite leave policy,
the periods of absence shall not be counted as service for determining the entitlement of
PL and GL in India.
• Leave, except maternity leave, cannot be claimed as a matter of right. Discretion lies with
E+1, who is empowered to sanction leave and refuse or revoke leave at any time,
depending on the exigencies of work. The reasons thereof shall be recorded and
communicated to the employee.
• In case an employee remains on unauthorized absence, the CTC salary (including all
allowances) for the period of absence shall be deducted for the actual number of days he
remained absent. This will be treated as a Loss of Pay (LOP).
• Leaves should be applied at least 7 days in advance except for emergency leave.
• All leaves should be applied for and approved on PULSE or via the mobile application.